# Lab Report: Mark(it all)down

#### Emma Farman

## Process Description

This introductory lab laid the foundation for the rest of our labs in this course, making this the most meta lab we will complete all semester. This week we focused on Inscription, with our lab examining how we will use Github and Markdown as our own form of inscription through the course of the class. I have used Github in the past to create a website with my own unique Markdown posts, but this project focused less on the design elements or internal coding setup of a github site, and instead lookedat Markdown as a medium, how and why to use it, and how it can be useful in other realms as well. 

We began by downloading Github desktop to our computers. Once we logged in (I did with my old account), we were able to access the link to our shared class respository, which is basically one large storage unit for different folders that we can all access and add markdown files or images to. Once we were able to access the shared class repository, we can upload any markdown file for any assignment to it. We learned what different commands look like in mark down like **bold** or _italics_ . In order to make things simpler and more streamlined, I have downloaded Macdown which is a software that lets users type in markdown on the left side and it shows the generated version of the text on the right side. I am currently using it to type this, and I must say that the design and fluidity of typing in Macdown is less distracting and simpler than typing in Word or in plain markdown as well.

## Observations

I am not an experienced coder or web user of any kind. I am the type of person that simply opens up a website, a word doc, turns on the tv, with absolutely no idea how any of it works. Through using github and markdown, it gives someone like a me a peak behind the current, however simplified and babied down, to see how websites and pages actually function. What is interesting about markdown to me that I did not know before is that it can be used outside of being "run" on a website as a page. It can be used in a similar way as Pages or Word as just a word processing software. It may take some time to get used to this layout, but I enjoy the no frills set up of the interface. Without all the embellishments it is simplier to just write, but also will take time to "take off the training wheels" so to speak. The exportability of a .md file also makes it really simple to share across other platforms. We'll be using markdown in this course for all of our lab reports and reading prep questions, but once I am in the swing of it I would like to experience using this software for other assignments in other classes or for my personal use. 


##Analysis

Markdown seems to me to bridge the gap between "coding" and "writing". I put quotations because both of these terms can be nebulous and sometimes interchangeable. Markdown, while it isn't explicitly a coding software like Java or CSS, it brings users closer to the interface of what they are actually writing on. I would like to get at a point that Leah Price makes in her book, _"What We Talk About When We Talk About Books"_, where she states, "The pages that follow will try to persuade you that the digital-age printed book isn't really an old medium at all. Rather, it's a format being reinvented by book-lovers before our eyes" (4). Markdown, or other forms of "pseudo-code writing" is one of the ways that the "printed" book is changing form.

Another line in Price's book that stuck out to me refers to this debate between e-reading and physical printed reading. She says, "One journalist complained recently that 'virtual books,  like virtual holidays or virtual relationships, are not real.' Fair enough. But neither are the images conjured up by blobs of ink pressed on wood pulp" (28). I think that programs like markdown could help alleviate this "e-reading is fake reading debate" because a lot of what seems unreal to me about it is that I don't understand how it's mechanisms work. Markdown helps bring non-coders closer to the software they are actually working with, making the virtual feel more palpable and understandable. 

Digital writing is simultaneously new and old. As John Bois put it, the internet should be more than just a "glow in the dark newspaper." Digital writing should be treated as a historical subject, like Lisa Gitelman proposes, but also in connection with older (and concurrent) media. It is expressing an evolution in print media but unlike paper or parchment which were inaccessible because of cost and resources, it is inaccessible because of the intricate knowledge necessary to code or understand the codes that our softwares rely on. By understanding even the basics of coding through markdown, I feel a little bit closer to understanding this medium that so much of my life and work rely upon.