#Lab Report: Press

####Emma Farman

##Process Description

Working with the printing press through the composition and printing process of the movable type, truly puts in perspective how much physical labor, time, and consequently money, went in to creating and distributing written works. Each of us selected a poem from our programmed twitter bots to transform into an analog printed version. The composition process of my poem was tricky, primarily because the format of my poem is made up of several short lines stacked up on one another. In word processing creating the spacing necessary is as simple as hitting the tab key a few times, but in the composition of movable type this spacing is dense and material, the space is a solid object that must be the proper dimensions so that the type is secure as a solid block of metal. This factor is crucial once it comes to the printing. The type must be placed into the chase, which is like a frame that holds the metal type in place using differently sized wood blocks and quoins, which are coiled metal springs that tighten the type and wood blocks in the chase in order to keep everything in place. This part was nervewracking primarily because of the amount of spacing in my poem, making the locking mechanism for the chase a little bit trickier to accomplish. Once everything was set, we brought the chase to the printing press and set it within the press so that the ink rollers could coat our type with ink. We then activated the press by spinning the large wheel on the left hand side, and we continued the printing motion of the press by using our foot to push the bottom pedal, which acts in a similar way to a bike pedal as our foot rides the oedal as it rises and pushes down on the pedal at the top of the press's rotation in order to keep the press cycling. 

##Observations
As I said earlier, this task required intense focus and physical diligence, even to create one small poem. While I am most certainly not as skilled as a 19th century typist, this activity really put in to perspective the labor required to create a book or newspaper, especially on a large scale. Textual information in this age seems to just appear out of thin air, but we take for granted the systems that create this print - especially the first forms of print media that paved the way for our media today. The intense focus became frustrating at points, but generally I found the activity of setting type oddly calming and therapeutic. Instead of writing like typing on a keyboard, setting type is a quieter, slower job. The focus became almost meditative, and writing took on a different meaning from the instantaneous connection between mind and screen, and instead it created a separation between the words and the creation of the print. 

##Analysis
Our readings this week illuminated the gendered and segregated aspects of print in the 19th century. Faithful's piece on Women Compositors elaborated on the usefulness and factual presence of women in the print shop, but often their roles were specifically allocated for women. Small point font required delicate hands to compose, while the movement of type around the shop and the physical labor required to move and work the press was allocated for the men. Even while advocating for women to be more present and acknowledged as members of the print shop, women were not advocating for a sense of equality within the print shop itself. 

Dinius's article on the radical typography of David Walker's appeal is an intersting glimpse into the power behind type. Walker's pamphlet utilizes the iconagraphic qualities of type in order to convey a bold message to readers as an indictment of slavery and the contradictions between the government and the Christianity it was built upon. Walker had access to type at a time when little to no black people had access to a printing press, let alone a way to distribute printed material to the masses. Walker took advantage of his medium by utilizing intense typography that captivates readers and highlights his main points.

All of these aspects behind printed media are often forgotten in this age where sharing and distributing information is incredibly fast, easy, and accessible to a much wider pool of people to create and share written texts. This exercise highlighted this transformation in an incredibly visceral and understandable way. 