#Lab Report: Zine You Around

#####Emma Farman

##Process Description

In this lab we created our very own zines. Snell Library's Reference and Outreach Archivist Molly Brown visited our class to share the library's zine collections with the class. Many of them were collected by one of the head archivists in Snell's archives during her youth in New Hampshire and Boston in the early 90's. We began the class first by flipping through the selection of zines that had been spread out onto the table. Some were higher budget than others, but most of them were created on xerox machines and shared by hand. We shared our thoughts on their creation in a group discussion, also bringing in our readings of Pagan Kennedy's autobiography which discussed the making of her personal zine during this time and the Zine Librarians code of ethics. We primarily voiced how the archives, specifically Snell's, is committed to protecting the recorded history of marginalized or under-represented groups, and seeing how this mission is connected to the themes of many of the diy zines we read. 

Next class it was time to make our own. Molly instructed us in folding one sheet of printer paper into an octavo. This was fairly simple and created a crude folded zine, but the sloppyness of the fold was kind of endearing. We then collaged for the whole class period, cutting and pasting words and images from magizines into our own hodge podge zines. I created the first half of two different zines. Even though many of us didn't complete entire zines, and also didn't come into class with a coherent idea of what it was that we would be making, this exercise was good practice in letting creative intuition move the making process, and arts and crafts are also just always fun.

##Observations

I have done collage work in the past, and I have had friends create zines as well of their own original art work and collage work, but I have never attempted to create a zine of my own in a serious manner. I think that this "serious manner" idea is what has skewed my perception of zines and zine culture. Perhaps in my mind I have conflated the idea of artbook and zine. The zines that we looked through presented a range of "professionalism" for lack of a better word, and frankly the more diy and spontaneous the zine was in production and topic, the more interesting it was to consume. Zines aren't meant to be taken seriously in that way, even when they discuss serious topics.

I created two different beginings of zines throughout the exercise. Motivated by different color schemes, or perhaps an impatience, I decided to create another one half way through the class period. I think that this is very exemplary of my own creative process. I have a hard time finishing projects, but often start many of them and never go back to them again. I think that this unit reading and creating zines was a good reminder that this process is not inherently bad, and creating is always worth something in the long run. This exercise was extremely relaxing and rewarding, regardless of the quality of the output, or regardless of the output all together. This has inspired me to do more collage work in my own personal life as just a fun hobby or pasttime. 

##Analysis

I think that the most interesting part of the unit was seeing how the zine culture in Allston Massachussetts is so similar and different to how it is today. DIY is still active in that neighborhood, even though it has changed a lot in the last few decades. These zines are amazing personal records of this transformation, and they contain information that you can't find on wikipedia or google. They recount how these people lived, and how the culture has morphed and changed and stayed the same since then. It got me wondering how the communities that are alive there now, and other communities outside of that, will record their hitories. Zines have gone digital in many ways. I'm thinking specifically of facebook pages that inform people of certain DIY events that happen around town etc. 

How we record our data matters, and our methods of recording have pros and cons. Digital recording is widely shareable, but can be less personal. Printed media is extremely personal, harder to share widely. Pagan's story of the creation of her zine shows how zines are deeply dependent on community connection, in a way that social media should be *in theory* but is not in practice. I think that this is created by trying to copy the printed into the digital, something is missed along the way. I think that this is why it is so important that we preserve our printed material, including zines and personal printed media. This is outlined primarily in the Zine Librarians code of ethics. In it they talk about the importance of ethical preservatiohn, and I think this was evident in the collection of zines we looked through in class also. This got me thinking of the ethics of recording in general, and what role each of us has as members of different commuinities to keep track of them. Should it be done online? Surveilled through programs like Instagram or Facebook. Or should we revert back to printed forms? This is evident in the return to analog like records, film, and even zine culture today. I think that the future holds a mix of the two, and I hope that I can play a role in that as our cultures and communities grow and evolve. 