# Lab Report: Into the Archives

#### Emma Farman

## Process Description

This lab was unique in comparision to the other labs we have done in this course so far, because it was reliant primarily on observation instead of physically doing something with our hands. While this may seem like more of a lecture style class, this observation required more critical thinking and grappling with the material objects of the archives than a simple lecture on the history. Touching, seeing, and even smelling the objects of the archive transfers so much more information than a scan on a screen. We visited both Northeastern's library archives and the Massachusetts Historical Society. Archives are governed by ideology, and each archive needs to make a decision on what their focus will be. Northeastern's archives primarily focus on historically marginalized groups in Boston's history, but they also hold other miscellaneous items and collections, such as the art books we worked with or the dragon prayer book which is a german medieval manuscript. The Massachusetts Historical Society focuses primarily on personal documents and records throughout Massachusetts history, and they hold the collections of the Adams family and the Thomas Jefferson papers. Both of these archives engage with the artifacts of history, but they do so through a different lens. We were given a tour by each of these institutions. 

## Observations
My main take away from our visits to the archives is my amazement of the preservation of these fragile documents. So much of history is inaccessible simply because paper is fragile, and if not maintained properly it will disintegrate with time. Our tour guide at the Massachusetts Historical Society emphasized that it is important to recognize what is *missing* from our records, because the archive is inherently intertwined with race and class priviledge. The stories that we chose to keep, or even the stories that made it onto paper or print at all, were the stories of the elite and noble leaving the lives of thousands of people unrecorded. 

I am also amazed by the sheer organizational abilities of these institutions. Archives often have thousands upon thousands of materials, and they all must remain neatly organized and categorized in order for the archive to remain a functional place and not just a storage closet. The archive is important because of this notion, encouraging the transparency of history by taking it outside of attics or basements or locked vaults and bringing it into the public light. This is a crucial moral pillar to the archive.

##Analysis

Viewing the archives made me think specifically of one quote from our Gleick reading. He says, "the quickening pace of commerce and transportation made other languages a palpable presence, forcing an awareness of the Enlglish language as just one among many." He goes on and quotes,"'Forenners and strangers do wonder at us,' Mulcaster wrote, 'both for the uncertaintie in our writing, and the inconstancie in our letters.' Language was no longer invisible like the air." This notion of spoken language being invisible like the air is very fascinating to me, especially in conversation with the ideologies of the archive.

History is a collection of memories, documents that have remained recorded that we can now observe. Not all history is recorded though, and often the archive (and western culture as a whole) over looks the importance and significance of oral history within culture. Perhaps this quickening pace of life he describes moves us to record everything down, before we forget. The motivations behind what we record, what we keep and throw away, is fascinating, especially in an age when we all have massive amounts of personal recorded data. What are we supposed to do with it all? Not sure anyone has an answer, but it is an interesting thing to think about. 