#Lab Report: Dragon Prayer Book

##### Emma Farman

## Process Description

The Dragon prayer book is Northeastern's only medieval manuscript, and they don't even know how it got here. Erika Boeckeler went into the Northeastern Archives one day several years ago and asked if they had any documents from the medieval period. Our archives here mainly specialize in 19th and 20th century marginalized groups from around Boston, with very little held from pre 1800's. But the archivist said they stumbled upon one manuscript that appeared to be much older. Donations to the archives are not recorded, so they don't know who gave the manuscript or when, but it now has a research team behind figuring out where it came from, who made it, and what it is for. 
	
The team is led by english student Laura Packard, but there are other students involved studying the chemical make up of the parchment, and translating the latin in the script into English. It is called the dragon prayer book because of the small dragon illustration placed within the initial of the first paragraph of the illuminated script. Laura and Erika explained all of this in their work shop, and we were encouraged to look through and explore the text ourselves. Erika said that parchment is meant to be handled over time because the oils from our skin lubricate the animal skin, keeping it from becoming brittle ­- which I thought was a lovely metaphor for keeping the past alive in our hands etc. We were led through the steps that our student researchers take while translating the book, and we practiced reading and writing in black letter. This was quite confusing because of the many unstandardized abbreviations and conjunctions they used for shorthand. 

## Observations
The main take away point that I took from this activity is that language, customs, and mediums are not permanent. The dragon prayer book is not very old in the grand scheme of human life, but it still holds so many mysteries regarding what it says, who owned it, what it was exactly used for. Manuscript technology is altogether a bygone technology, and what used to be basically memorized and clear information now requires a whole team of researchers to decode and analyze. The process of copying and decoding this blackletter was very frustrating at times, not only because it was in latin, but because of the lack of standardization of spelling and even letter shapes makes deciphering this text and others like it extremely difficult. This standardization of letters and spelling is something that we often take for granted as a constant, but this did nto come about until the invention and ubiquity of the printing press, and the need for a universality of understanding of the written word. Often spelling was not even regarded when people thought of language spoken or written. Even something as personal as a name didn't have uniformity over all of its spellings - think Shakespeare for instance.

## Analysis
This workshop specifically made me think of our readings referring to the holiness of the scribes work. The dragon prayer book, made entirely by hand and from nearly twenty calves, took a lot of care and attention and time to create. Holy scripture was one of the only things that was deemed worthy of taking up that many resources. It was seen as heavenly, divine work, and the hand of the scribe was almost like an extension of God himself. This book of prayers was most likely used in a convent, so it was probably created and used by nuns. It has been dated back to around 1462, which is after Gutenbergs printing press had reached this area of germany, and the printing press was most certainly being used. The division between printing press and scribe work (reminiscent of our own debates between electronic reading and print reading) was a hot debate. Trithemius says in his Praise of scribes that, "The printed book is a thing of paper and in a short time will decay entirely. But the scribe commending letters to parchment extends his own and the letters' lifespan for ages." There is some grain of truth to this. But the sheer quantity through which printed volumes were created raised the probability of survival of at least one copy, whereas manuscripts were often delicately made and entirely unique. With only one copy made usually they were at great risk of being damaged or destroyed. The art of the hand of scribal work was also seen as very important, and often viewed again as the direct work for God. The dragon prayer book was probably seen in this light, as a highly valuable work of art created by the hands of god. This gave it much more value to the nuns that used it in comparison to a printed version. This distinction of the "worthiness" of the text based on its form can be seen in debates today, and will probably be made every time humans invent a new communication technology. 