# Lab Report: Programming Literacy

#####Emma Farman

## Process Description:

This lab took us through the process of creating and coding our very own twitter bot. Using the free public service called Tracery, we each developed our own unique set of commands to make our individual, generated poems. I  decided to take the William Carlos Williams poem "This is Just to Say" and fill in certain words in the poem with randomly selected words from a long list. The origin is encoded at the top or the bottom of the code window and it tells the Tracery machine which parts should be replaced or filled in using the lists provided. These lists correspond to the origin with certain arbitrary elements with tags like "noun" or "object". As long as I made sure that these elements corresponded correctly, and that the lists followed well-formedness, the bot can correctly randomly generate a new poem. 

## Observations

Tracery is technically a sort of frame work for code and initially I was nervous if I would be able to even compelete this assignment because of my lack of knowledge about actual code. Once we began toying with the program, however, it became clear that Tracery is less like coding actions and more like a categorizing system. This is similar to the work I do at the Women Writers Project, where we use XML code to tag certain key elements in a text to make these archival works easily searchable and classified in a digital database. Tracery functions through the same methods, through which it is crucial that you use the correct notation or "grammar" so that the program can understand what you are telling it to do i.e commas and brackets put in the right places. What is inside the tags or the quotation marks is entirely arbitrary, and it is this part that helps the human understand and categorize more easily within the tracery software itself. 

This minute attention to detail of the grammar within tracery would become very frustrating, especially when the program wouldn't run simply because there was a missing punctuation mark that was impossible to find. This became increasingly difficult as I became a little too excited about the program, making my lists of fill in words as long as I could. I used the corpora provided, created by Darius Kazemi, in order to fill in a lot of possible words. This got tricky with all the puntuation, but once I got it done the bot is now up and running with hundreds of different possible combinations to be made. 

## Analysis

This introduction to a psuedo world of code moved me to think about the different ways in which "literacy" is defined, in both the written word and in code. Both of these things come in many many many different forms, and often there is a distinction made between "elevated" literacy and "lowly" literacy. In code this distinction may be made between languages, or comparing something like the code for a videogame to a simple tracery input. Which is more elite? This is has been true for written language perhaps as long as it has existed, with the first written texts (specifically religious doctrine) being made and used by and for the elite. The elite were the only people who had the ability to read these texts, and so they held the power when it came to sharing and disseminating the information, especially at a time when the church was so crucial to daily life and socioeconomic structures. This is illuminated in the Aelfric's Preface to Genesis piece in which he is concerned that because the priests can read and write they may, "also often talk about Peter, why they might not have a wife, just as the blessed apostle Peter had." Even though the priesthood was a small percentage of the population at the time, even controlling them is difficult once ideas are passed through the written word. 

Now that literacy of the written word is so widespread, even the common man can tweet to the president and move information in ways that those in power can not control in the ways that they used to be able to. Code now surrounds, is the framework, for the passage of this information. And yet a much smaller percentage of people are able to read and write in this code that governs so much of our world. This topic is touched on heavily in Annette Vee's "Coding Literacy". She reiterates that the bar to entry for learning code has been lowered immensely. She claims that now "with ubiquitous computational devices and free lessons online, access to learning programming is easier." While we are seeing a shift in programming occur (which can be shown through the fact that as an unknowledgable english major I am able to create a twitter bot) it is important to remember that the computer science industry continues to be dominated by white cis men. The demographic in power much like the priests of the middle ages. 

Another note that I wish to touch on, relating back to Aelfric's piece on translation, is the idea of coding "languages". These systems are governed through complex series of syntactical and grammatical functions, and from Java to HTML to Python, they all use different methods to perform specific actions. This idea of translating from one code to another is very similar to the idea of translating one language to another. I am curious to know if code functions like language in which ideas are "lost in translation" so to speak. Like for instance how when I plug items into tracery, I understand what grammar I need to use, but I do not understand the code through which the website itself is built upon. Vee touches on this when she explains the criticism of calling coding a "language" because unlike words, code is both a description and "an action in and of itself" that is run on the computer. Regardless of the semantics behind coding literacy, its parallels to the written word with regard to the power dynamic between the sharing and witholding of information and the public's ability to understand and relay this information, is impossible to ignore. 